now the influential us Republican
senator lindsy Graham says Israel will
have to accept a two-state solution if
it wants to normalize ties with Saudi
Arabia speaking to NBC News the staunch
critic of President Joe Biden praised
the administration's efforts to push for
a normalization deal between Israel and
Riad to my friends in Israel you do
whatever you think is best for the state
of Israel but I can tell you Saudi
Arabia and other Arab countries cannot
normalize with this Israel if they seen
if they're having been seen as throwing
the Palestinians under the bus we have
two choices continue the death spiral or
use October 7th as a catalyst for change
I think this the Arabs are going to
demand some form of two-state solution
to recognize Israel I think Israel is
going to demand security buffers
different than before and they need to
make those demands I don't know how this
ends but I'll tell you this if we don't
get this right this time we're talking
about another generation of just tip for
de
death let's get more on this from shab
britans our correspondent to's following
events for us in Washington DC and sheab
it has to be said that this is a bit of
a departure in terms of sort of
Republican talking points isn't
it and it's quite instructive to look at
how Graham got to this departure this
tough love saying oh look you know we we
we support you but this may not be
popular but you know you have to accept
a two-state solution cuz actually that
interaction on that program began with a
question of is Israel doing enough to
limit civilian deaths though sen Senator
and you could see I was watching Graham
kind of gulp because clearly there is no
justification for what's going on in
Gaza and he said I would hope they could
do more but then he did what everyone in
the Biden Administration is doing too he
immediately then says but let's talk
about the day after this pivot to the
Future the day after don't talk about
today because of course everything
that's being done today is being done
with American Support American green
light American weapons so let's talk
about the future and that's where then
there's that element of criticism partly
because Netanyahu himself has completely
destroyed the narrative edifice of the
American foreign policy establishment
here by saying no we never were
interested in giving the Palestinians a
two-state solution we were never going
to do that I never wanted to do that and
of course this is what the Palestinians
have been saying for ages this is what
impartial observers have been saying for
ages that the narrative oh Clinton that
Camp David you know Arafat walked away
blah it was all complete nonsense and
it's all being admitted now so so
they're scrambling that foreign policy
establishment is is scrambling so
they're saying look you see we are being
critical about Israel here we're saying
look you should at least get a two-state
solution sometime in the future this
doesn't mean that they're not going to
continue to unconditionally support
Israel but in the same way that Biden
last week was saying look this is about
PR it's about public opinion and if you
you seen as too intransigent you're
going to lose public opinion that's the
main issue for senators like lindsy
Graham and for presidents like Biden she
brany there for us with the latest
thanks very much